The Project Gutenberg EBook of Cartoons by McCutcheon, by John T. McCutcheon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Cartoons by McCutcheon
       A selection of one hundred drawings

Author: John T. McCutcheon

Release Date: August 9, 2020 [EBook #62895]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CARTOONS BY MCCUTCHEON ***




Produced by Chris Curnow, Chuck Greif and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









                            [Illustration]

                               _CARTOONS
                                  BY
                              McCUTCHEON_

                            [Illustration]




                               _CARTOONS
                                  BY
                              McCUTCHEON_

                 _A Selection of One Hundred Drawings
                         By JOHN T. McCUTCHEON
        INCLUDING THE FAMOUS “BOY IN SPRINGTIME” SERIES, ETC._

                            [Illustration]

                               _CHICAGO_
                         _A. C. McCLURG & CO_
                                _1904_




                               COPYRIGHT
                        BY A. C. MCCLURG & CO.
                                 1903

                      Published May 2, 1903
                      Second Edition, May 20, 1903
                      Third Edition, June 20, 1903
                      Fourth Edition, July 15, 1903
                      Fifth Edition, January 1, 1904


   _The cartoons in this volume originally appeared in “The Chicago
    Record-Herald,” and they are now reprinted through the courtesy
         of the publisher of that paper, Mr. Frank B. Noyes._


                    UNIVERSITY PRESS · JOHN WILSON
                     AND SON · CAMBRIDGE, U. S. A.




                _CONCERNING MR. McCUTCHEON’S CARTOONS_


_Those who have studied and admired Mr. McCutcheon’s cartoons in the
daily press doubtless have been favorably impressed by the two eminent
characteristics of his intent. First, he cartoons public men without
grossly insulting them. Second, he recognizes the very large and
important fact that political events do not fill the entire horizon of
the American people. It has not been very many years since the newspaper
cartoon was a savage caricature of some public man who had been guilty
of entertaining tariff opinions that did not agree with the tariff
opinions of the man who controlled the newspaper. It was supposed to
supplement the efforts of the editorial in which the leaders of the
opposition were termed “reptiles.”_

¶ _The first-class, modern newspaper seems to have awakened to the fact
that our mundane existence is not entirely wrapped up in politics. Also,
that a man may disagree with us and still have some of the attributes of
humanity._

¶ _In Mr. McCutcheon’s cartoons we admire the clever execution, and the
gentle humor which diffuses all of his work, but I dare say that more
than all we admire him for his considerate treatment of public men and
his blessed wisdom in getting away from the hackneyed political subjects
and giving us a few pictures of that every-day life which is our real
interest._

                                                           _George Ade_

_Chicago, March 1, 1903._




A BOY IN SPRINGTIME

[Illustration: “_Dog gone it! I wish they hadn’t found her till after
the baseball season._”]

A BOY IN SPRINGTIME

[Illustration: “_Aw, that’s easy. I can do lots harder ones than
that._”]

A BOY IN SPRINGTIME

[Illustration: “SUNDAY CLOTHES”]

A BOY IN SPRINGTIME

[Illustration: “_Dog gone the luck, anyway._”]

A BOY IN SPRINGTIME

[Illustration: THE LAST DAY OF SCHOOL]

THE FRENCH EMISSARY STUDIES OUR INDUSTRIAL METHODS

[Illustration: UP-TO-DATE ARCHITECTURE]

THE FRENCH EMISSARY STUDIES OUR INDUSTRIAL METHODS

[Illustration: THE ENTERPRISING DAILY PAPER]

THE FRENCH EMISSARY STUDIES OUR INDUSTRIAL METHODS

[Illustration: THE STOCK YARDS]

THE FRENCH EMISSARY STUDIES OUR INDUSTRIAL METHODS

[Illustration: THE BOARD OF TRADE]

THE COLISEUM HORSE SHOW

[Illustration]

AT LAST WE ARE TO HAVE FOX HUNTING NEAR CHICAGO

[Illustration]

A SUNDAY TROLLEY TRIP ALONG THE NORTH SHORE

[Illustration]

SUNDAY IN LINCOLN PARK

[Illustration]

DERBY DAY

[Illustration]

THE LAKE FOREST HORSE SHOW

[Illustration]

THE WOMEN’S GOLF TOURNAMENT

[Illustration]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: THE PIRATE CHIEFTAIN--“_We’re Surrounded by perils.
Behind Us is a Herd of Wild Buffaloes, on One Side Is an Unfriendly
Shore Swarming with Hostile Natives, and in Front of Us Are Breakers and
Deadly Reptiles._”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “_See, I ain’t afraid._”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: THE BLOWING-UP OF PENELOPE]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “_For the land’s sake, child, where do you put all the
stuff you eat? This is the fourth piece you’ve had since breakfast._”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “_Come and look at your new sister, Johnny._”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “_I wonder if she likes him better than she does me._”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “THE VOICE OF THE TEMPTER”]

A BOY IN SUMMER-TIME

[Illustration: “SUDDENTLY ATTACKTED” BY SERIOUS ILLNESS ON THE FIRST
MORNING OF SCHOOL]

THE VACATION SEASON

[Illustration]

READING THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

[Illustration]

CIRCUS DAY

[Illustration]

THE DINNER-HORN AT HARVEST-TIME

[Illustration]

THE COUNTY FAIR

[Illustration]

THE OPENING DAY OF THE COLLEGES

[Illustration]

THE COLLEGES ARE NOW IN FULL BLAST

[Illustration]

THE FOOTBALL SEASON IS HERE

[Illustration]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: “_’Cept Spring and Summer, I like Fall the best of
all._”]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: “RECESS”]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: “LITTLE BROTHER VISITS THE SCHOOL”]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: “_Poor little fellow, I’m afraid he’s a pretty sick
little dog._”]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: THE BURIAL OF KAFOOZALUM]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: “_Go ahead, Bill, you’re braver than I am. We’ll just
pertend we’re pirates and the crulls is a ship filled with gold and
joolry._”]

A BOY IN FALL-TIME

[Illustration: THREE DAYS BEFORE THANKSGIVING--“_I believe I’ll just
pertend it’s Thanksgiving already._”]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: A LITTLE EXHIBITION OF DEMOCRATIC SIMPLICITY AT A NEW
YORK LUNCHEON]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: TEN MINUTES IN ST. LOUIS]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: PUZZLE--“WHOM ARE THEY EXPECTING?”]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: A COSTUME EVENT AT THE AUDITORIUM, ILLUSTRATING LIFE IN
THE WILD WEST]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: MILWAUKEE]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: NIAGARA FALLS]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: BOSTON]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: BOSTON]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: AN AFTERNOON TEA IN NEW YORK]

ENTERTAINING PRINCE HENRY

[Illustration: “LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, I THANK YOU FOR A VERY PLEASANT
VISIT”]

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT IS RESTING AT OYSTER BAY

[Illustration: _First he chops down a few trees._]

[Illustration: _Then takes a cross-country canter._]

[Illustration: _And a twenty-minute brisk walk._]

[Illustration: _After which he gives the children a wheel-barrow ride._]

[Illustration: _He then rests for a moment._]

[Illustration: _By which time he is ready for breakfast._]

OUR PRESIDENT ENTERTAINS SOME OF HIS FRIENDS AT OYSTER BAY

[Illustration: _He first entertains an old fellow tennis-player._]

[Illustration: _And then shows a few fellow rough riders around town._]

[Illustration: _After which he is visited by some fellow LL.D.’s._]

[Illustration: _And then a couple of old hunter friends._]

[Illustration: _A few fellow politicians then call to discuss the
situation._]

[Illustration: _And finally he has a pleasant chat with some fellow
authors and historians._]

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT VISITS MR. CLEVELAND AT PRINCETON

[Illustration: “_Ah! Welcome to Princeton, Mr. Roosevelt._”]

[Illustration: “_Would you like to look at my photograph albums?_”]

[Illustration: “_That one weighed eight pounds, Theodore._”]

BEAR HUNTING IN MIASMA, MISSISSIPPI

[Illustration: “_Now, you jest be patient, Mr. President, and ye’ll soon
have a nice mess o’ bar._”]

[Illustration: (_Four hours later._) “_I wonder where the bears are
to-day. This is unbearable._”]

[Illustration: (_Eight hours later._) “_Strange there wa’n’t none o’
them bar around. Reckon you all wa’n’t patient enough, Mr.
President._”]

CAMPAIGNING WITH BATHHOUSE JOHN

[Illustration: THE POET CANDIDATE GIVES AN AUTHOR’S READING BEFORE
LITERARY CIRCLES IN THE LODGING-HOUSE DISTRICT]

CAMPAIGNING WITH BATHHOUSE JOHN

[Illustration: COURIER FROM THE FRONT--“_They’ve routed the ‘Old Guard,’
General!_”]

OUR CHICAGO ALDERMEN IN NEW YORK

[Illustration: “_Ah, gents, permit us to show you our beautiful city._”]

[Illustration: “_Now, gents, step right up and try to pick out the
little joker._”]

[Illustration: “_Great Scott, Shorty, who wass them guys, anyway?_”]

OUR CHICAGO ALDERMEN IN BOSTON

[Illustration: “_Ah, gentlemen, you are interested in literature, are
you not?_”

“_Why, sure._”]

[Illustration: “_How is the literary movement in the West, gentlemen?_”

“_Fine. Moving right along in great shape._”]

[Illustration: “_I suppose you enjoy Emerson, gentlemen?_”

“_Why, yes, I suppose so. What paper’s he on now?_”]

[Illustration: “_And do you not love Holmes, the dear old Autocrat of
the Breakfast Table?_”

“_You bet! There’s nobody like Sherlock for a good, rattling detective
story._”]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: “_Look, Ma! See how much wood we carried in, and you
didn’t haf to ask us to, either. And we watered the plants, too._”]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: A LETTER TO SANTY]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: “_Well, how lovely for you to come over to visit your
Aunt Mary! And you’re just in time for dinner, too. Isn’t that nice? Did
you tell your mother that you were going visiting?_”]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: “_Come on! Hurry up, fellers! The hounds have found the
trail!_”]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: THE FAIRY STORY--“_Once upon a time there was a very
beautiful little fairy princess--_”]

A BOY IN WINTER-TIME

[Illustration: “_I bet yer glad to be out again, haint you, Johnny?_”]

MR. MORGAN VISITS KING EDWARD

[Illustration]

KING EDWARD MEETS MR. MORGAN

[Illustration: “_Good-evening, Your Majesty._”

“_Good-evening, Mr. Morgan._”]

[Illustration: “_You look well in your knickers, Morgan._”

“_I came on my bike, King Edward._”]

[Illustration: “_Your crown becomes you very much, King._”

“_I’m afraid it needs pressing, Pierpont._”]

[Illustration: “_Have a fresh cigar, Pierp._”

“_Thanks, Edward. It looks like a good one._”]

[Illustration: “_Let me reciprocate, Ed. Have a bunch of stocks on me._”

“_Thanks. Don’t care if I do._”]

[Illustration: _And then Pierpont settled down to business._]

MR. MORGAN MEETS THE KAISER

[Illustration: “_I hope you like my original painting, Mr. Morgan?_”

“_Very clever, Your Majesty._”]

[Illustration: “_I hope you enjoy my original musical composition, Mr.
Morgan?_”

“_It’s very clever._”]

[Illustration: “_My original poetry interests you, I trust?_”]

[Illustration: “_What’s that about ‘trust’? Ah, now you interest me,
Your Majesty._”]

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT DELIVERS AN ADDRESS TO THE TRUST MAGNATES

[Illustration: PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT--“_We must regulate the bad trusts,
and--_]

[Illustration: “_Perhaps revise the tariff on articles that are sold
cheaper abroad than at home._”]

THE SPEAKER THAT SPOKE AT THE WRONG TIME

[Illustration: “_Sh! Do not speak, or else you’ll wake the tariff._”]

[Illustration: _And just then Speaker Henderson came along._]

SOCIAL HAPPENINGS AT BIRD CENTER, ILLINOIS

A RECEPTION IN THE K. OF P. HALL IN HONOR OF THE HON. EPHRAIM PUMPHREY,
CONGRESSMAN-ELECT

[Illustration: “Among those present were Mrs. Riley Withersby, widow of
the late Riley Withersby; Rev. Walpole and wife and children, Dr. Crosby
Niebling and wife, Judge Horatio S. Warden, Mr. Smiley W. Greene, the
popular undertaker, and wife and children; Captain Roscoe Fry and wife
and children, Mine Host, ‘Mort’ Peters, of the Bird Center House, and
wife; Attorney D. I. Black and wife and children, Messrs. Winthrop K.
Biddle, of Philadelphia, Elmer Pratt, Homer Withersby, Orville Peters,
Riley W. Peters, Wilbur Fry, and ‘ye editor,’ J. Oscar Fisher; Misses
Flossye Niebling, ---- Barnard, of Xenia, Ohio; Lucile Ramona Fry, Grace
Niebling, Kate Warden, who is home for the Thanksgiving vacation; Mae
Niebling, Myrtle Peters, Elizabeth Nicklefield, Anna Walpole, Clara
Black, and Alys Fry. Chris C. Newbower was also among those present.”]

SOCIAL HAPPENINGS AT BIRD CENTER, ILLINOIS

MRS. RILEY WITHERSBY ENTERTAINS THE BIRD CENTER READING CIRCLE

[Illustration: “A delightful affair was that given last evening at the
pleasant residence of Mrs. Riley Withersby. It was the monthly meeting
of the Bird Center Reading Circle and was an unusually successful and
happy function. Among those present were Mrs. Riley Withersby, Rev.
Walpole and wife and children, Mr. Smiley W. Greene, the popular
undertaker, and wife and children, Mine Host, ‘Mort’ Peters, of the Bird
Center House, and wife and children, Messrs. Elmer Pratt, Homer
Withersby, Orville Peters, Riley W. Peters, Wilbur Fry, and ye editor,
J. Oscar Fisher, Misses Lucile Ramona Fry, Grace Niebling, Kate Warden,
Mae Niebling, Myrtle Peters, Anna Walpole, Clara Black, and others.
Chris C. Newbower was also present for a while.”]

SOCIAL HAPPENINGS AT BIRD CENTER, ILLINOIS

MRS. SMILEY W. GREENE, WIFE OF THE POPULAR UNDERTAKER, CELEBRATES
THANKSGIVING BY ENTERTAINING THE DANCING CLUB

[Illustration: The Dancing Club met at the home of Mrs. Smiley W. Greene
on Thanksgiving evening. A full quota of our fellow townsmen attended
and all agreed on parting that a most enjoyable time was had. Mrs.
Greene was beautifully gowned in a blue and white creation trimmed with
sprays of immortelles. Elegant refreshments were served and the occasion
was rendered quite Bohemian in character by the presence of our talented
local artist, E. Milton Brown of the Bird Center Tintype Studios. Rev.
Walpole and family dropped in for a few moments during the early part of
the festivities.


ADDITIONAL SOCIETY NOTES.

Chris C. Newbower was also among those present at Mrs. Smiley W.
Greene’s dancing club entertainment. Chris says that he is not much of a
shining light in the social whirl.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss ---- Barnard, of Xenia, Ohio, who has been visiting the Misses
Niebling, has decided to remain here a week longer. Ah, there, R----y
P----s.]

THE WAR MANŒUVRES, THE GALLANT GENERALS, AND THE ARMY MULES WHO DID NOT
KNOW THAT IT WAS ALL IN FUN

[Illustration: _Shortly after luncheon the enemy’s fleet was sighted
stealthily approaching by sea._]

[Illustration: _Whereupon a terrific battle occurred which lasted two
hours; and the fleet, being sunk, annihilated, and blown to atoms
(constructively),_]

[Illustration: _Departed, leaving the army victorious, with but two
constructive casualties._]

[Illustration: _Every battery at the fort was worked with terrific
effect._]

THE NAVAL MANŒUVRES AT NEWPORT

[Illustration: “_The enemy’s fleet has been sighted off the starboard
quarter, sir._”]

[Illustration: “_Call all hands to quarters! Clear ship for action!_”]

[Illustration: “_This reminds me of Santiago._”]

[Illustration: “_The Duchess of Marlborough is alongside in her dinghy,
sir._”

“_Pass the word to cease firing, and have Her Grace come aboard._”]

[Illustration: “_Ah, delighted, Your Grace. I hope this noise hasn’t
annoyed you._”]

DECORATION DAY

[Illustration: “_Don’t cry, Grandma. You’ll see him again sometime._”]

THE INGLORIOUS FIFTH

[Illustration]

JUST BEFORE THANKSGIVING DAY

[Illustration: “HELPING MOTHER”]

JUST BEFORE CHRISTMAS

[Illustration: “_Ah, I see quite a number of new faces here to-day._”]

HAVE YOU EVER HAD THIS EXPERIENCE?

[Illustration: MR. MANSHOPPER--“_I’ve discovered the great secret of
Christmas present buying. First decide positively what you want to buy,
then decide on the price you want to pay, and then go and buy it._”]

[Illustration: “_I think I like that bowl better than the vase or the
inkstand._”]

[Illustration: CHORUS OF ADMIRING FEMININE VOICES--“_Oh, isn’t that a
perfectly lovely pitcher! Oh, isn’t it too lovely for anything!_”]

[Illustration: _Mr. Manshopper after having purchased a present for his
wife’s writing desk._]

A PICTORIAL SERMONETTE

THE WOMAN WHO TELLS HER HUSBAND ALL HER PETTY TROUBLES

[Illustration: “_I tell you, it’s a relief to get home after a long,
hard day of work and worry at the office._”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, William, I’ve had such a dreadful day to-day! First
it was one thing and then another. I just know the grocer overcharged me
on that yeast I bought yesterday; and the baby cried nearly an hour this
afternoon, and the bread burned, and the dog chewed up one of your
slippers, and the roof leaks, and the hall carpet is wearing out._”]

[Illustration: “_And you must punish Willie. I can’t do a thing with him
any more. He insists on being a pirate when he grows up, and he knows
well enough that we want him to be a doctor. And we really must have a
new hall carpet, and you must see about the roof, and be sure to see the
grocer about the yeast._”]

[Illustration: “_Great Scott! I guess I’ll have to go down to the office
again to-night._”]

A PICTORIAL SERMONETTE

[Illustration: “_Half-past four--and Johnny not here yet. I wonder what
can keep him so long?_”]

[Illustration: “_Supposing he has been skating and has broken through
the ice!_”]

[Illustration: “_Or maybe he has been run over by a trolley car!_”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, I know something dreadful has happened to him. I
just know they’ll soon be bringing him home._”]

[Illustration: _But, as usual, there was nothing whatever the matter
with Johnny._]

A PICTORIAL SERMONETTE

THE MAN WHO HAD NO RIGHT TO TALK

[Illustration: AT EIGHT O’CLOCK--“_Why, take a night like this, with the
thermometer below zero, the suffering among the poor is simply terrible.
Somebody ought to take them coal barons out and string ’em up to the
nearest lamp-post._”]

[Illustration: AT ELEVEN O’CLOCK--“_I tell you, gentlemen, it’s an
infamous outrage. Just think of the suffering among the helpless poor.
It makes me mad to think of it. I wish I was President for about fifteen
minutes--you’d see some of them villains in the coal trust pay for their
confounded heartlessness._”]

[Illustration: AT TWELVE O’CLOCK--“_Well, I’ve got to be going, for I’ve
got a twelve-mile drive and it’s bitter cold to-night. I pity the poor
people who have no coal on a night like this._”]

A PICTORIAL SERMONETTE

ON THE IMAGINATIVE MAN WHO WORKS HIMSELF INTO A PASSION BECAUSE HE
THINKS SOME ONE MAY INSULT HIM

[Illustration: “_I wonder if he will remember me after all these years.
Maybe his prosperity has changed him so that he will pretend to forget
the old school-days._”]

[Illustration: “_Well, if he tries the haughty act with me there’ll be
trouble. I won’t allow any man to insult me. It would be an outrageous
way to treat an old friend._”]

[Illustration: “_And I’m too proud to stand for it a minute! I’ll mop up
the floor with him! I’ll show him that I’m as good as he is, even if he
is rich. Confound him, I’ll leave this beastly hole rather than be
humiliated that way!_”]

[Illustration: _As a matter of fact Mr. Scadsworth was delighted to see
his old friend._]

A PICTORIAL SERMONETTE

ONE OF THE PERILS OF THOSE WHOSE POSITIONS IN SOCIETY ARE NOT SECURE

[Illustration: MR. SNOBBLY (aside)--“_Great Scott, there’s that man who
spoke to me at the hotel. I wonder how he broke in here. I hope he
doesn’t speak to me right here before Mrs. Topnotcher._”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, Mrs. Topnotcher, what a beautiful tapestry that is
over there!_”]

[Illustration: “_And what a lovely chandelier you have._” (_Aside._) “_I
hope that old man has not recognised me._”]

[Illustration: _As a matter of fact, old Mr. Bullion didn’t know Snobbly
was on earth. He merely came over to speak to his old friend, Mrs.
Topnotcher, with whom he spent a week at a house-party in Windsor Castle
as the guest of King Edward._]

MR. LUGUBRIOUS BLUE AND MR. SMILEY GLADD ON THE VENEZUELAN SITUATION

[Illustration: MR. GLADD--“_Well, I see there’s another little scrap
down in Venezuela._”

MR. BLUE--“_Little scrap, nothing. It’s the beginning of a terrible war
between the United States and Europe._”]

[Illustration: MR. GLADD--“_Oh, I think they’ll adjust the trouble
before long._”

“_Now, you mark my words. Inside of three months we’ll have to defend
the Monroe Doctrine against England and Germany._”]

[Illustration: MR. GLADD--“_Oh, dear me, you don’t think it’s so serious
as all that, do you?_”

“_Listen. I’ll tell you just what will happen. England and Germany will
fight Venezuela for a week or two, then demand eight hundred million
dollars indemnity and refuse to leave till they get it. Uncle Sam’ll
say, ‘clear out,’ and then look out for something doing in war
circles._”]

[Illustration: MR. GLADD--“_Oh, I’m sure they’ll patch it up all
right._”

“_Just you wait. We’ll have a war that will be the most dreadful one
that ever happened._”]

A CARIBBEAN SCHÜTZENFEST

OR, THE SHIP THAT WAS MUCH THE WORSE FOR WAR

[Illustration: “_Ach, Himmel, this monotony is deadly. Nichts komme
raus; or, in other words, there’s nothing doing in war circles._”]

[Illustration: “_While we’re waiting, let’s heave a few twelve-pounders
over in that Venezuelan fort. Let’s wake ’em up a little._”]

[Illustration: “_By the way, gunner, see if you can shoot the
mizzen-mast off of that mule over yonder._”]

[Illustration: _But at that moment the Venezuelans woke up, and the
Schützenfest was all over._]

SHERLOCK HOLMES ANALYZES A PERFECT STRANGER

[Illustration: SHERLOCK HOLMES--“_Ah, a stranger whom I’ve never seen
before._”]

[Illustration: “_How do you do, sir. I observe that you are in the coal
trust; also that you have just had a narrow escape; that you have no
children; that you were in a great hurry this morning; that you have
been writing, and that you shaved with your left hand this morning. Are
you going away on the afternoon or the evening train?_”]

[Illustration: “_Why, this is simply marvelous, Mr. Holmes. Everything
you’ve said is true. How in the world did you find out all these things
about a man you’ve never heard of before?_”]

[Illustration: “_By a very simple process of deduction. I can tell by
your hands that you are in a trust, and I know it was the coal trust by
the hungry way you looked at my purse there on the table, and by the
fact that you glanced apprehensively around you as if expecting some one
to hit you with a club. I knew that you had just had a narrow escape, by
the fact that three bricks grazed you, and the brick dust is still on
your coat. You have no children, for if you had you would have some
consideration for poor people who have children. I knew that you
expected to take a journey, because I understand the grand jury is in
session. I also knew that you had shaved with your left hand because
your face is cut, and there is ink on your right forefinger, showing
that you were writing out an order to whoop the price of coal while
shaving with your left. You were in a hurry, because you had time to
have only one shoe polished. It’s all very simple._”]

THE SYMPATHETIC COAL DEALER AND THE MAN WHO HAD TO HAVE A TON OF COAL

[Illustration: SYMPATHETIC COAL DEALER--“_I’m terrible sorry your family
is suffering, but I haven’t an ounce of coal that isn’t contracted
for._”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, it breaks my heart to hear that your children are
suffering and if I had any coal to spare I’d let you have it._”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, your sad story overwhelms me with grief and I wish
to express my deep sympathy._”]

[Illustration: “_I’ll send the coal right down. If you need any more
just let me know._”]

DOES THE END JUSTIFY THE MEANNESS?

[Illustration: THE COAL OPERATOR--“_Honestly, I hate to see all this
suffering upon all sides--_”]

[Illustration: “_But, Great Scott, just see how much money I’m making!
I’ll soon have enough to endow a college._”]

THE COAL INVESTIGATION

[Illustration: THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE TO THE COAL
CONSPIRATOR--“_Now, answer me explicitly. What per cent of hydrogen does
the average ton of coal contain?_”]

[Illustration: “_Now, do not attempt to equivocate or evade this
important question. If a ton of coal weighs a thousand pounds, how much
does a ton of anthracite coal weigh compared to the weight of a ton of
bituminous coal?_”]

[Illustration: “_Do you or do you not know whether a ton of anthracite
coal dating from the paleozoic age burns more readily than a ton of
bituminous dating from the pre-glacial epoch? This has an important
bearing upon our investigation._”]

[Illustration: _The Committee submits its report._]

“ANARCHY ISLE”

[Illustration: SUGGESTED BY SENATOR HOAR]

THERE IS NO CLAUSE IN THE NEW NICARAGUAN CANAL TREATY AGAINST BILLBOARDS

[Illustration]

“IN THE SPRING THE YOUNG MAN’S FANCIES LIGHTLY TURN TO THOUGHTS OF ST.
JOE”

[Illustration: _The Michigan “Gretna Green”_]

THE ARRIVAL OF THE INDIANA AUTHORS AND POETS

[Illustration: A LITERARY EVENT IN CHICAGO]

THE ANNUAL CRUISE OF THE DOROTHEA AND THE ILLINOIS NAVAL RESERVES

[Illustration]

THE NATIONAL GOLF TOURNAMENT AT GLENVIEW

[Illustration]

SOCIAL HAPPENINGS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.

[Illustration: THE TEA AND PUNCH ROUTE ON CONNECTICUT AVENUE DURING THE
BUSY HOURS]

ONE RESULT OF THE MODERN METHODS OF THE UP-TO-DATE CHURCH

[Illustration: “_John, I just know there’s somebody trying to get in our
front door._”]

[Illustration: “_Now, do be careful when you open the door, John._”]

[Illustration: “_John, John, don’t open that door!_”]

[Illustration: “_Gee! I didn’t know w’ere te toor-bell wass at._”]

[Illustration: “_Oh, John, I just know something dreadful has happened
to father!_”]

[Illustration: “_Gee! if dere hain’t no answer, I guess I’ll mosey back.
Gee! dis is a peach of a night._”]

GENERAL CHAFFEE AND VICE-GOVERNOR WRIGHT ARRIVE FROM THE PHILIPPINES

[Illustration: “_Let us give them a Filipino welcome that will make them
feel at home._”]

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO FOOTBALL TEAM--

[Illustration: AS STAGG DESCRIBES THE CONDITION OF THE TEAM BEFORE THE
GAME--]

[Illustration: AS THE TEAM REALLY WILL BE DURING THE GAME]

THE POPULAR GIRL WHO WISHED OUT LOUD

[Illustration: _“Oh, I should so dearly love to have a nice Boston
terrier!”_]

[Illustration: _December twenty-fifth_]





End of Project Gutenberg's Cartoons by McCutcheon, by John T. McCutcheon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CARTOONS BY MCCUTCHEON ***

***** This file should be named 62895-0.txt or 62895-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/8/9/62895/

Produced by Chris Curnow, Chuck Greif and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
